add dumpling into tidb tools (#3453)
pingcap/docs: backup-and-restore-using-dumpling-lightning.md

---
title: Use Dumpling and TiDB Lightning for Data Backup and Restoration
summary: Introduce how to use Dumpling and TiDB Lightning to backup and restore full data of TiDB.

> aliases: ['/docs-cn/dev/export-or-backup-using-dumpling/','/zh/tidb/dev/export-or-backup-using-dumpling']

Author: Fixed the two aliases in https://github.com/pingcap/docs/commit/a0ec32a0baf8ea902457089ce0c357fe8c1e4fa2.

---

# Use Dumpling and TiDB Lightning for Data Backup and Restoration

> This document introduces in detail how to use Dumpling and TiDB Lightning to backup and restore full data of TiDB. For incremental backup and restoration, refer to [TiDB Binlog](/tidb-binlog/tidb-binlog-overview.md).

Author: ```suggestion
This document introduces in detail how to use Dumpling and TiDB Lightning to backup and restore full data of TiDB. For incremental backup and replication to downstream, refer to [TiDB Binlog](/tidb-binlog/tidb-binlog-overview.md).
```

> This document introduces in detail how to use Dumpling and TiDB Lightning to backup and restore full data of TiDB. For incremental backup and restoration, refer to [TiDB Binlog](/tidb-binlog/tidb-binlog-overview.md).

Author: Updated.
